docs/user_guides/myaccessid_registration.md, before:

# MyAccessID account registration

!!! warning
    User guide is in development. Early feedback is welcome, send email to ilja.livenson@ut.ee.

Currently, MyAccessID provides 3 different ways to register account:

1. via academic institution available in eduGAIN
2. via national identity provider (eIDAS)
3. via eduID Sweden

### Create account using your home academic institution

In order to use this option, your home organization must be available in eduGAIN.
To check that, type your home organization name to search field on MyAccessID login page.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

If you are able to find the correct organization, follow the process to authenticate yourself with your home organization credentials. If everything is correct, you will be redirected back to MyAccessID and you are asked to accept the MyAccessID and Service Provider Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }

If you're not able to find your home organization, please proceed with the Option 2 below.

### Create account using national identity provider (eIDAS)

To use eIDAS as authentication method, please choose "Login with eIDAS"

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

Then you're redirected to eIDAS login page, where you can find available countries.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eidas login.PNG){ width="600" }

By selecting particular country (clicking a flag) you will be forward you to the national login page. 
The authentication methods behind the flags are different in each country. It may be that you do not have a possibility to use your country's options.

If everything is correct, you will be redirected back to MyAccessID and you are asked to accept the MyAccessID and Service Provider Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }

In case you did not find your flag, please proceed to Option 3 below.

### Create account using eduID Sweden

For users who do not have  academic identity or supported eIDAS digital identity, it is possible to register a new digital identity with eduID Sweden by selecting this option on MyAccessID login page.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

Then you're forwarded to eduID Sweden login page where you can log in with already existing account or create new one.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid login.PNG){ width="600" }

When selecting "Register", please use your email and follow the instructions.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid register.PNG){ width="600" }

You're asked to accept the eduID rules and prove that you're a human.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid rules.PNG){ width="600" }
![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid confirm human.PNG){ width="500" }

You're asked to enter your first name, last name and other relevant information. Required information may change over time.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid name.PNG){ width="600" }

If everything is correct, you're redirected back to MyAccessID to accept Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }

Commit message:

Added note to eduID section.

docs/user_guides/myaccessid_registration.md, after:

# MyAccessID account registration

!!! warning
    User guide is in development. Early feedback is welcome, send email to ilja.livenson@ut.ee.

Currently, MyAccessID provides 3 different ways to register account:

1. via academic institution available in eduGAIN
2. via national identity provider (eIDAS)
3. via eduID Sweden

### Create account using your home academic institution

In order to use this option, your home organization must be available in eduGAIN.
To check that, type your home organization name to search field on MyAccessID login page.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

If you are able to find the correct organization, follow the process to authenticate yourself with your home organization credentials. If everything is correct, you will be redirected back to MyAccessID and you are asked to accept the MyAccessID and Service Provider Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }

If you're not able to find your home organization, please proceed with the Option 2 below.

### Create account using national identity provider (eIDAS)

To use eIDAS as authentication method, please choose "Login with eIDAS"

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

Then you're redirected to eIDAS login page, where you can find available countries.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eidas login.PNG){ width="600" }

By selecting particular country (clicking a flag) you will be forward you to the national login page. 
The authentication methods behind the flags are different in each country. It may be that you do not have a possibility to use your country's options.

If everything is correct, you will be redirected back to MyAccessID and you are asked to accept the MyAccessID and Service Provider Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }

In case you did not find your flag, please proceed to Option 3 below.

### Create account using eduID Sweden

For users who do not have  academic identity or supported eIDAS digital identity, it is possible to register a new digital identity with eduID Sweden by selecting this option on MyAccessID login page.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID login.PNG){ width="500" }

Then you're forwarded to eduID Sweden login page where you can log in with already existing account or create new one.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid login.PNG){ width="600" }

When selecting "Register", please use your email and follow the instructions.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid register.PNG){ width="600" }

You're asked to accept the eduID rules and prove that you're a human.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid rules.PNG){ width="600" }
![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid confirm human.PNG){ width="500" }

You're asked to enter your first name, last name and other relevant information. Required information may change over time.

!!! note
    There is NO need to put an ID number, mobile phone or anything else in the “identity” or “advanced settings” tabs.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/eduid name.PNG){ width="600" }

If everything is correct, you're redirected back to MyAccessID to accept Terms of Use documents and Privacy Policies.

![MyAccessID login](../assets/MyAccessID accept.PNG){ width="600" }
