docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Puhuri documentation web site!


Puhuri platform is a set of integrated services for managing access to shared resources in a federated manner.
This site is aimed at providing a high level technical information about Puhuri service for target stakeholders.

## Outline

- [Architecture](architecture.md) provides a top level overview of Puhuri architecture.
- [Resource Allocators](resource-allocators-overview.md) is aimed at organization allocating shared resources.
- [Identity Providers](idp_integration/index.md) is aimed at organization providing information about users' identities.
- [Service Providers](service-providers.md) is aimed at organizations hosting shared resources.
- [Environments](environments.md) contains descriptions of development and production environments.


## Introduction

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vSm0gNavR8AIqfe_FQwDCWFXwGReX8NeIMbN-RFQo2IV1QPeq5oG-2ESb3S2Sq5ipyDoMwg7RALB3Q9/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

## Contacts

![Placeholder](assets/logo.png){ align=right }

Please see [https://neic.no/puhuri/](https://neic.no/puhuri/).

Commit message:

index.md updated, removed presentation, added link to whitepaper

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Puhuri documentation web site!


Puhuri platform is a set of integrated services for managing access to shared resources in a federated manner.
This site is aimed at providing a high level technical information about Puhuri service for target stakeholders.

## Outline

- [Architecture](architecture.md) provides a top level overview of Puhuri architecture.
- [Resource Allocators](resource-allocators-overview.md) is aimed at organization allocating shared resources.
- [Identity Providers](idp_integration/index.md) is aimed at organization providing information about users' identities.
- [Service Providers](service-providers.md) is aimed at organizations hosting shared resources.
- [Environments](environments.md) contains descriptions of development and production environments.


## Introduction

Puhuri aims to facilitate easy and efficient access to high-performance computing (HPC) and related services throughout Europe, with the goal of benefiting both researchers and industrial users. The key objective is to minimise the administrative costs of service providers while simultaneously improving the usability of these services. This will be achieved by establishing federated services for Authentication and Authorization Infrastructure (AAI) as well as resource allocation services. Please read more from the [Puhuri Whitepaper](https://wiki.neic.no/w/ext/img_auth.php/8/80/Puhuri_Whitepaper.pdf).

## Contacts

![Placeholder](assets/logo.png){ align=right }

Please see [https://neic.no/puhuri/](https://neic.no/puhuri/).
